hey I'm going to do a little video about
sharpening knives there's a ton of
videos out there but I didn't find one
that was aimed at someone who has never
sharpened a knife before and doesn't
know where to start and what to get so
let me just show you a few different
stones and then I'm going to tell you of
all the stones I use the simplest and
quickest way to put an edge on a knife
I'll show you the best stone I have but
I also have never used it because I
don't need to this is a Norton stone
this requires lubrication oil you could
use water but like a light oil on the
other side what it does is help to
slough off the metal filings as you're
sharpening but it's never been used and
there's a reason for that because I've
never needed to use that here's another
one this is a round one this is you keep
it in your pocket you could use it for
axes you could carry it in the woods
with you it's got a rough side and a
medium side and I haven't used that
either I've got a couple of harder
stones here and these are to put the
final really fine polished edge and I do
use these a lot this this is an Arkansas
stone here real limited comes from
Arkansas there's only one place they get
this kind of stone and it's in Arkansas
and I think this is synthetic this one
here this is another Arkansas stone this
is just one you can carry in your pocket
but it's been used so this is a pretty
good setup here this
is a what I use but the stuff I use is
over here and I'll show you that I
haven't got to this yet and the only
reason my habit is because I wear these
out before I get to this this is a three
stone set up here you got rough
you got your medium side here and then
you have your Arkansas your fine fine
stone here but of all this stuff this is
what I use this is a cheap Harbor
Freight stone rough medium and then this
is a kind of a fairly expensive stone
Arkansas stone all the stuff I have this
is the stuff I prefer because it's
simple basic easy I've got the point
where I can really quickly put a nice
sharp shaving kind of edge on my blades
I use it for my kitchen knives and
hunting knives and I've even used it for
chisels now I'm going to show you how to
start if you've got a really bad edge
one that's never been sharpened maybe
it's got dings and dents and nicks in it
you might have to look at it under a
with a magnifying glass to see but
sometime if you have a blade that's got
a fairly decent edge on it you might
want it on to start with a rough you
might want to start with a medium side
but let's just say that you have a
really bad blade or a really bad edge on
each blade is a little different
depending on the thickness but that
would determine what angle you want to
hold this at generally a the angle would
be between 15 and 25 degrees and for
those that may not know what degrees are
that would be
90 degrees that would be 45 and that
would be 22 and a half so between 15 and
25 degrees is generally what you want if
you had a blade with her that was really
thick you would want to go towards the
25 degree angle and a thin blade you
would want to go towards the 15 degrees
so now I'm going to show you the basic
strokes before I do that don't let me
tell you as you're pulling this towards
you what happens is the the very edge of
this blade you get this birth this curve
that curves over if you're stroking it
this way that curves that away it's not
something you can see with your naked
eye but you can feel it with your finger
to do that and what you're doing is
you're sharpening that burr away and
you're sharpening it until there's no
more burr until the edge is fine and
there's no more burr
so you know people do this differently
and I'm going to show you the way I do
it and I and I'm sure I'll have people
told me that they do it differently or
I'm doing it wrong but I'm going to show
you how I do it and this is just to get
you started and once you get once you
put an egg's on a blade like this you'll
be hooked the next thing you know you'll
be sharpen and everything you've got
here we go I do five strokes on either
side and I pull it towards me lots of
people go in both directions I just go
in one direction and here's how I do it
I rest my fingers on the blade and I
pull it towards me like that
as you come to the curb in you want to
lift up a little bit I think that was
five and flip it over and you go on the
opposite direction this blade right now
I can shave with it so I'm just showing
it under that might take a hundred
strokes on this
to get past all your Nicks and dings on
your blade so then I turned it over once
I got past that once I got the beginning
edge that I wanted I would turn it over
go to the fine edge and what this does
let's rub out all the scratches on the
edge that the rough side put on and then
I would be done with that oh and when
you get that kind of an edge on it when
you've got all the scratches rubbed off
this stone which is a really fine fine
hard Arkansas stone what this does is
polish that edge and I you can see when
you've got it right it'll shine and
here's something else as you're doing
this you sort of get into a groove and
you develop a mechanical you don't even
think about what you're doing no it's
just it becomes automatic muscle memory
and you get a feel for when that bird is
disappearing you can hear it and you can
feel it and I can't think of anything
else to tell you but if you didn't know
how to sharpen and you didn't know what
you get just this stone will go a long
long way and sharpen your kitchen knives
that's a that's a cheap dollar stone
Harbor Freight it's just got a rough and
a medium side and if you really wanted
to go big-time and put a razor-sharp
edge on it you would get a hard Arkansas
stone thanks for watching